---
layout: post
title: "Camp"
date: 2023-05-12
 00:00:00 -0700
tags: camp
---

I love camping, it's a simple way to take a vacation to chill and explore.

This article shares some insights on how I like to camp.

- [Philosophy](#philosophy)
- [Gear](#gear)
- [Site](#site)
    - Where are you going to camp?
- [Transport](#transport)
    - How are you going there?
- [Food](food)
    - What are you going to eat?

Checklists

- [Site Checklist](#site-checklist)
- [Packing Checklist](#packing-checklist)
- [Food Checklist](#food-checklist)

## Philosophy

Lazy. Cheap. Comfy.

I want to spend my time exploring and chilling out in nature. I want to maximize my time spent surrounded by nature reading a good book and drinking tasty hot tea.

I'm a lazy camper. I want to achieve a reasonable level of comfortable without spending a lot of money and energy.

- Packing the minimal amount of things needed is the least amount of effort.
- Meals that don't require cooking or only require boiling water are convenient. Especially if those meals allow you to skip cleaning dishes.

## Gear

Camping is a little different from staying at a hotel or in a cabin.

Generally, since I'm cheap, I don't want to acquire a lot of gear. Having a lot of gear is a hassle since you need to keep track of it and store it. That said, I find the following gear convenient:

- [Tent](#tent)
    - I find it more comfortable and less effort to sleep in the back of a hatchback. However, if you don't have a hatchback or have more people than can comfortable fit in a car, a tent is nice.
- [Sleeping Pad](#sleeping-pad)
    - Something between you and the hard cold ground is convenient, it's not necessary, but it makes sleeping more comfortable.
- [Sleeping Bag](#sleeping-bag)
    - A sleeping bag allows you to keep all the warmth in, you can use blankets instead, but a sleeping bag can be convenient.
- [Small Stove](#small-stove)
    - Having hot water for meals and tea is nice.

You don't have to buy this gear. Many places, like REI, offer gear rental - which if you are starting to get into camping allows you to try it out without a significant investment. Long term, unless you camp frequently, gear rental is likely less expensive.

### Tent

Pick a tent that is easy to set up and take down. You will thank yourself later when you arrive at the site late and it's dark, or when you want to leave early in the morning after a long hike.

If you intend to share a tent with others make sure the tent is big enough for everyone and their gear.

If you intend to backpack or bike pack, consider the weight of the tent, try to find something under 3 pounds, every pound of weight matters. Also, consider the tents bulk, since it needs to fit in your backpack or on your bike.

### Sleeping Pad

Inflatable sleeping pads are compact and comfy, but you have to blow them up, and they can get holes in them.

Foam sleeping pads can be bulkier and less comfy, you can simply unroll them and don't have to worry about holes.

I prefer the reliability and less effort of foam sleeping pads, even if they are a little less comfy.

### Sleeping Bag

It's important your sleeping bag is rated for the temperatures you will be camping in.

I recommend a light compact sleeping bag that's easy to store and carry.

### Small Stove

A stove with a built in igniter is convenient, since you don't need to remember a lighter or matches.

I prefer a small compact backpacking stove that simply screws onto the top of small gas bottle. I pair the stove with a small pot to boil water. It's a light setup that's easy to store, and easy to use.

## Site

There are many campgrounds to choose from.

I recommend picking a campsite that is beautiful with running water, a bathroom, and trash disposal.

[Site Checklist](#site-checklist)

Some places to find campsites:

- [National Parks](https://www.recreation.gov/)
- [State Parks](https://www.parks.wa.gov/)
- Some municipalities allow camping in certain parks.
- [KOA](https://koa.com/)
- [iOverlander](https://ioverlander.com)

As you camp more you will make your own list of favorite sites to return to each year.

## Transport

Generally, most campsites are far enough away you will need to plan how to get there.

- Car
- Bike
- Walk

### Car Camping

Drive to the campsite.

The easiest type of camping is weekend car camping. You drive your car to a campsite on a Friday night, stay the night, spend Saturday exploring, stay the night, and head back Sunday Morning.

For car camping I prefer to sleep in the car verses setting up a tent - it's less effort. Hatchbacks are ideal, generally you can fold down the back seats and have enough room to lie down and pass out. If you are considering sleeping in the car make sure to try this out in your vehicle before planning a trip.

### Bike packing

Ride your bike to the campsite.

Weight matters since you need to bike everything in and out.

Make sure all your gear fits on your bike or in your backpack. If using a backpack make sure that your backpack distributes the load on your hips.

### Back packing

Hike to the campsite.

Weight matters a lot - you need to carry everything on your back.

Make sure to have a good backpack that distributes the load.

## Site Checklist

- Natural Beauty
- Running Water
- Bathroom
- Trash
- Shade
- Close to adventure
- Away from bugs

## Packing Checklist

Basics

- phone
- id
- keys
- phone charger

Personal Care

- toothbrush
- toothpaste
- floss
- shaver
- deodorant
- toenail clipper
- tweezers

Clothes

- pajama pants
- t shirts - one per day
- underwear - one per day
- shorts or pants - one per day
- belt

Adventure

- water bottle
- sunscreen
- hiking boots
- baseball cap
- sunglasses
- swimsuit
- hand warmers

Sleeping

- sleeping bag / blanket
- sleeping pad
- pillow


Food

- stove
- stove fuel
- pot to boil water
- cup for tea
- chopsticks - use the extra wooden ones you sometimes get for takeout
- fork / spoon
- water
- [food](#food-checklist)

Other

- flashlight
- book

## Food checklist

- tea bags
- muffins
- granola
- granola bars
- dried fruit
- crackers
- smoked fish or canned fish
- fresh fruit that doesn't require refrigeration
- instant - just add hot water packaged food - oatmeal, ramen, etc - easier if in own cup
- chocolate
